1) What is cloud computing?
Cloud computing is an internet based new age computer technology. It is the next stage technology that uses the clouds to provide the services whenever and 
wherever the user need it.It provides a method to access several servers world wide.

2) What are the benefits of cloud computing?
The main benefits of cloud computing are:
-Data backup and storage of data.
-Powerful server capabilities.
-Incremented productivity.
-Very cost effective and time saving.
-Software as Service known as SaaS.

3) What is a cloud?
A cloud is a combination of networks ,hardware, services, storage, and interfaces that helps in delivering computing as a service. It has three users :
1.End users
2.Business management users
3.cloud service provider

4) What are the different data types used in cloud computing?
There are different data types in cloud computing like emails, contracts, images , blogs etc. 
As we know that data is increasing day by day so it is needed to new data types to store these new data. For an example,
if you want to store video then you need a new data type.

5) Which are the different layers that define cloud architecture?
-CLC or Cloud Controller
-Walrus
-Cluster Controller
-SC or Storage Controller
-NC or Node Controller

6) Which platforms are used for large scale cloud computing?
The following platforms are used for large scale cloud computing:
-Apache Hadoop
-MapReduce

7) What are the different layers in cloud computing? Explain working of them.
There are 3 layers in the hierarchy of cloud computing.

-Infrastructure as a service (IaaS):It provides cloud infrastructure in terms of hardware as like memory, processor, speed etc.

-Platform as a service (PaaS):It provides cloud application platform for the developer.

-Software as a service (SaaS)::It provides the cloud applications to users directly without installing anything on the system. These applications remains on cloud.

8) What are the different models for deployment in cloud computing?
These are the different deployment model in cloud computing:
Private cloud
Public cloud
Hybrid cloud
Community cloud

9) What is private cloud?
Private clouds are used to keep the strategic operations and other reasons secure. It is a complete platform which is fully functional and can be owned,
operated and restricted to only an organization or an industry. Now a day, most of the organizations have moved to private clouds due to security concerns.
Virtual private cloud is being used that operate by a hosting company.

10) What is public cloud?
The public clouds are open to the people for use and deployment. For example: Google and Amazon etc. 
The public clouds focus on a few layers like cloud application, infrastructure providing and providing platform markets.

11) What are Hybrid clouds?
Hybrid clouds are the combination of public clouds and private clouds. It is preferred over both the clouds because it applies most robust approach
to implement cloud architecture. It includes the functionalities and features of both the worlds. It allows organizations to create their own cloud 
and allow them to give the control over to someone else as well.

